 Linux
OS - Operating System
Types of OS - Windows, MAC, Android - Linux, Watch - Apple, Ware.
OS - Operating System is an interface between Hardware & Software.
OS manages - Memories, manages queue of request,responsible for i/o ,multile drivers.
OS types - Generic - eg (Windows, MAC, Linux) & Specific - (Smart Watches, fridges, )
Unix- Grandfather of all operating system.
Linus - Father of all operating system.
Unix is different from Linux , in the matter of its open souce.
Linux - Kernal, it forms big part of operating system. 
In os, where the kernel - does 80% of work of operating system.
Benefits - Flexible,light weight,highly configurable,malware free.awesome development.
Stable - large community - performance
Diff between Unix & Linux -Unix -It is an os & paid version. Linus - It is kernel packed with different distribution into a complete os, where the design principles of unix is shared but no the source code.
Linux Distro -Linux Distribution - Reason to make Linux installation easiler Eg. Red Hat & Ubuntu- Old distro - Vpn .Even paid version of distro also exists.
Linux Architecture - "Hardware" - harddisk, monitor, keybord,"Kernel"-Mangages RAM & I/O - CPU, GPU,RAM,"Shell - command line,-Application - Microsoft
Linux Kernel - Schedulers,File System,Security,Network,Driver.
Linux Kernel  uses,- System Libraries - functions, System Software - Os, User process.
linux - Kernel,Shell, file,packacet amnager & user
Kernel - Enables us to use all the hardwares.
Kernel has two types of mode : User model & Kernel mode.
Shell - an interface to talk to the kernel.Two types: command line interface- Basch shell & graphical user interface.B
File -Media files..etc
Package manager -To download -In ubuntu apm
User- Root user - Having more access & Normal user
Linux Installation - 1.Using Virtual box,2.Using cloud.
LinuX Installation - Virtual box - Oracle 2.Ubuntu image
Working with Ubuntu - ctrl+d - terminal gets appeared.
Commands
1.pwd - (present working directory)
2.ls -a(list all the hidden files)
3.ls -al(list all the hidden files with meta data)
4.ls -l(list the files  created with meta data in order_
5.ls -ll(list all the files)
6.ls (list all the folder)
7.cd ./Document or cs /Document(change from one directory to another & change from one folder to another)
8.cd..(to go to prenious directory)
9.cd -(will take to previous location / root node )
10.mkdir newFolder(making directory)
11.Task - create a newStart directory
mkdir newStart
ls
cd ./newStart
12.touch is to file create & nano is used file editor
touch hello.txt(to create a tex file)
13.nano hello.txt(to create a editor for typing)
hello1
14.ctrl+x(to exit)
15.cat hello.text (to check whether a word is written or not)
16.vi fun.txt(don't need nano editor)
17.rm fun.txt(to remove an editor)
18rm -rf *(to remove more files).
19.rmdir newF(to remove directory)
20.mv fun.txt to ../Desktop(to move files to particular destination)


